So we're gonna be operating in your
workshop repo in the packages/chat folder.
That's the Slack app.
Let's go through the basics
of how to use this thing.
I'm gonna make a quick commit.
Just in case my computer melts or
something.
I don't like holding on to code for
too long.
All right, so we're in this chat folder,
so you should be able to run yarn dev.
And then after some build happens,
may take longer than what you're seeing
on my screen cuz I have some cached
build stuff that was already there for
me, you should eventually see
serving on localhost 3000.
And if you click that,
you should see a Slack app.
So first, we need to get
TypeScript into our tool chain.
And let's just check our devDependencies,
it might already be in here.
It is, okay.
So I took care, there is one copy of
TypeScript installed in this whole
workspace, it's the same thing used
by all of the different packages.
So I just put this here to make
sure that we got that benefit,
we're using the same version everywhere.
So let's go into the tsconfig for
this project.
The thing we're gonna add here, so
note that I already have allowJS here,
which allows JavaScript
to be part of my program.
checkJS will say, I want to get errors,
type errors in the JavaScript
files if they exist.
If you say allowJS,
you could just import JavaScript files,
you can use things from JavaScript files.
But TypeScript won't look
inside those files and
give you feedback about what works and
what doesn't work.
So I would argue TypeScript's
already part of our tool chain, but
it's not doing any
type-checking right now.
In our src folder, it's a 100%
JavaScript in here, everything is JS.
So let's add checkJs true, And hit Save.
And we should see some errors.
One way we can do this is by running,
if we kill this server by hitting
Ctrl + C, we can run yarn typecheck.
We could also open up some of these
files and we'd see some errors.
But this is a command I wrote so
we could see this real easy.
You might wonder,
why do I have a typecheck script
instead of a build script?
Well, this is an example of
a project where I have something
called parcel doing the building for me.
So the typecheck command runs tsc
directly with dash dash no emit.
So it's doing all of the work that
would be necessary to do the compile,
but it's not putting any files in
a dist folder or anything like that.
Cuz I don't wanna build the whole project,
there's Gatsby behind
the scenes doing some work.
It takes a little while to build.
It's useful to have a typecheck
function like this so
that you can sort of quickly
swat at type errors.
So we have 6 errors in 3 files,
let's take a look.
And I'm just looking at these to see
what the names of the files are.
I want to start from the deepest files,
the things that
have the fewest imports,
and sort of work my way up.
It's possible to do it in any order,
but if you do it from the top down,
sometimes you end up having to loop
back to the top and fix other things.
So I kind of just try to start
with leaf level dependencies,
just in terms of the modules.
If you made a paragraph of modules and
their imports,
I wanna start with the things that are at
the very lowest level and work my way up.
So let's start with channel.
I left some hints in the notes, let's look
at those before we get too deep into this.
Just so
we don't have to hunt around too much.
First off,
maybe you put this on your clipboard.
This is a React functional component
type that could have children,
the children property,
with no specific type for props yet.
So if we find things that
are objecting to children,
this is a very,
very basic type to put in here.
If you haven't taken the fundamentals or
intermediate course,
these are type params between, sorry,
between these little angle brackets.
But that's all this is,
it's a React functional component.
And then here's a little
pattern around useState.
Do you have question
about the first piece?
>> It just looks like, is a combination
of JSDoc and TypeScript syntax, is that?
>> It does look like that.
If you took the intermediate course,
where we talked about declaration merging,
where you can have a value and
a type piggybacking on each other.
There are some types that are sort
of arguably making their way
into our JavaScript files.
React has types on it,
and now that TypeScript's
part of our program, we can use this.
Remember, we're inside
a comment context here.
This isn't new code that JavaScript
needs to know how to run, but it's
TypeScript that's looking at the types
here and using them to check out our code.
So you can write a wide range of
TypeScript type information in this
JSDoc stuff.
You may be used to seeing a string here or
something like that, but
you can put whatever
type you want in here.
If you import something
that has an interface,
you can use that interface in JSDoc.
So the second thing I wanna point
out here is React.useState.
So initially, useState, you'd begin with
an undefined state if you don't
put something into useState.
So we may need to fix that because React,
or this list and setList things,
these are gonna start objecting to us
using the state, us working with this.
This isn't an array, it's an undefined, so
we'll need to do something there with
JSDoc in order to make that work.
So with that, I'm gonna put this on
my clipboard, and let's get started.
And here's that useState problem.
So if we go up here to
the top of Channel.jsx,
you can see we don't
get a type error here.
We got it lower down, saying,
map does not exist on never.
Never just means this has been narrowed to
the point where TypeScript says this is
an impossible value, you shouldn't even
be able to get to this piece of code.
And part of that is because
messages starts out as undefined,
which is always a falsy value.
And look at this, we have a little
thing that says, if it's falsy,
anything falsy, we're gonna return.
And so our TypeScript's wondering like,
what could you possibly find useful about
referring to messages below line 19?
You've determined that you should
always exit if the types are right.
If it's really undefined,
you should kick out of the function here.
So why are you trying to reach for
a length property here?
There should be no messages
happening at that point.
We're gonna need to make
a little adjustment here, and
what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
create an initial value.
And you could decide
what you wanna do here.
Let's start with this.
You could start it as null or
undefined or even an empty array, but
here's what we can do.
type, any or null.
Let's check out this thing.
Hey, it's an array of anys,
which could potentially be null.
Anyone have an idea of why we're not
seeing the null piece over here?
It's kind of odd.
Let's delete the any array,
let's see if it maintains the null.
Well, it's good there.
What if we did this?
It's like 49 is a subset of numbers,
so we may as well just say,
it's like this value can be any number,
but it can also be 49.
Well, that's included in number,
we don't need to say the 49 at this point.
So what's happening here is we
have strictNullChecks turned off.
Null is an allowed value in any type.
And so it's saying, all right,
you gave me an array, any array,
an array containing anything.
And because null can be part of all types,
that's just in any array.
Null is already in there, just like
42 is already in the number, right?
That's what we're seeing here.
I'll leave it this way, cuz eventually,
we'll turn that flag on, and
then there will be a distinction here
between is it an array or is it null?
We're gonna pass this into useState.
And here's our messages value here.
We're getting nothing
yelling at us about length.
We're getting nothing yelling
at us about map down here.
So we've addressed that piece, but
I see that we're having
problems with loading here.
Property children is missing in,
then it looks like kind of some
representation of the props I'm passing
in here, if you've used React before.
It's missing,
which is required in this other type.
So let's go into Loading, and
it turns out we have children here, right?
And what we can do is just add
the thing that's on our clipboard,
which it read saying,
React.PropsWithChildren.
Children, it's gonna be
present on this type.
Interesting that it's not.
This should be enough to make it work, but
that's not really the type I passed in.
Maybe PropsWithChildren defaults to any,
who knows.
All right, so
no more errors in Channel that I can see.
Let's run typecheck again,
see where we're at.
I'll open up this one, we haven't
touched it, so this is probably up.
I bet it was the loading problem
popping up here yet again.
1 error in 1 file.
Okay, what do we got here?
Man, in our JavaScript code,
we had a really troubling error,
where we tried to get a DOM
element with getElementById.
And then we compared it to false to see
if the element's present or not, and
that's not how we do things.
We gotta say, Oops,
that was a double if, though.
That's a much better check there.
So this is an example of something
that was tolerated with allowJS but
it wasn't picked up until we
had real typechecking here.
Now, we should be able to typecheck.
We can run our app after these passes and
make sure that it actually works.
It's running on 3000.
Refresh, there it is, all good.
So we've completed step one.
React is now typechecking things,
it's typechecking our JavaScript.
A lot of what I'm benefiting
from is things like this, right?
And if I hover over these,
you'll recognize these as interfaces and
type aliases.
They're part of the fetch API, and so
I have access to them in this file.
This is how you denote
an optional property here,
although I'm not sure it's, there it is.
See, look, look at init with
the question mark after it.
Square brackets means optional in JSDoc.
So even if maybe your team's not ready
to fully commit to using TypeScript,
you can get a lot of
value out of js.comments.
And it lets you sort of
hold your ground and
get to a closer place where enabling
TypeScript using TS files would be easier.